CART REQUIREMENTS (key structures and storage mechanisms, file names and directories, file dates and times, file deletion, encryption, forensic implications) - These should be met in 2-7.

OUTLINE (working)

1. filesystem basics
2. ntfs filesystem explanation to include key features
3. fat32 filesystem explanation to include key features
4. comparison of these features.
5. are the features/details necessary to use the computer or are they overkill.
6. are the feaetures/details necessary to forensically examine the computer.
7. In what case would there be a use for either system from a user perspective and a forensic perspective

USEFULE NOTES TO THINK ABOUT WHEN WRITING IT.

essential data and non-essential data required to save and retrieve files.
logical file address. slack space. unallocated space. wiping techniques.

FAT Boot Sector Data

cluster and sector addresses.

directory entry/allocation

ease to analyze fat file structure but limits with regards to file recovery and temporal-based auditing.

NTFS everything is a file. MFT

logical file system provides information on where data is stored on the physical disk

PAPER (working)

TITLE: A Comparison of the NTFS and FAT32 File Systems

1. INTRODUCTION

This paper will begin describing what a file system is and the concepts that most file systems follow. Once a basic understanding of file systems has been established, NTFS and FAT32 cannot be compared without clearly defining the two filesystems. After each file system is clearly defined, then there is data available to compare NTFS and FAT32. As is listed in the title, the NTFS and FAT32 file systems will be explained in detail, starting with NTFS. When discussing file systems, NTFS is considered to be complex and FAT32 is considered to be simple. "Why are they considered to be complex or simple?" will be evident when each filesystem has been defined. NTFS will be covered in detail first because it is complex and will require more explanation. FAT32 will be covered second because it is simpler. (THIS ORDER MAY CHANGE ONCE I DEFINE A FILE SYSTEM IN GENERAL AND THEN DEFINE FAT32 AND NTFS). For the purpose of this paper, a few assumptions will be made that will simplify the number of divergant explanations and definitions required and to provide a common basis for their comparison. The computer in reference will have a hard drive used for storage that contains a singular file system on the Windows XP operating system.

2. GENERAL FILE SYSTEM
A file system is a system that manages storing, retrieving and updating files on a computer.

COMPARE NTFS VS FAT AND THEN FILL IN EXPLANATIONS FROM WHAT'S IMPORTANT IN THE COMPARISON

NTFS vs FAT32
N - ability to recover from disk-related errors
N - improved support for lareger hard disks
N - better security through permissions and enryption
F - no security
F - 32GB file partition limit and 4GB - 2 bytes file limit.
F - fluff free and simple file system that is well documented and keeps track of file locations.
N - complex, undocumented at the at the raw bytes level and subject to change.
F - file allocation table
F - uses small file clusters to use space more effectively
F - relocate root folder and use backup of FAT.
N - file level encryption, sparse file support, disk usage quotas, distributed link tracking, file compression
F - FAT is required for DOS or win9X
N - required if need support for files over 4GB-2bytes, hard drives over 137GB in size and or security features.
N - smaller RAM footprint, indexed design more efficient. (extra overhead of security checks, compression, encryption) (small clusters may fragment data cluster chains)
N - transaction rollback, file-level permissions, fixes failing clusters on the fly.
N - smaller cluster size than FAT32 above 8GB.  may include data of small files w/in directory level, bitmap structure is smaller than FAT32's dual FAT, (NTFS has large MFT strucutre) (larger per-file directory metadata space)
N - NT >
F - 95-XP


FAT splits volume into clusters. cluster size is determined by the size of the volume. for FAT, cluster number must fit in 16 bits and must be apower of 2.
